Collection Interview

what is difference between comparable and comparator

	comparable provide only one sort sequence
	comparator provide multiple sort sequence
	comparable used method name compareTo()
	comparator used method name compareTo
	comparable used package call java.lang
	comparator used package call java.util
	comparable interface if gets implteed of class
	that it modifies
	but comparator class gets impleted then it does not modifes

what is the advantage of property files
if value gets change in property files then it does not need
recomplie, it easy to manage in applciaiton

what is hasmap and hastable
2 things to remember
hashmap is not syncronized
hashtable is syncronized
hashmap can have one null key and multiple null values
where hashtable cannot have any null key or values

what is the advantage of generic collection
generic collection mean it does not need typecasting

what is the dictionary class
the dictionary class provides the capability to store key-value pairs

what is difference between array and arraylist
array is static where it has fixed length size
arraylist is dynamic variable legnth collection class
[how can you check the size of array and array list
what is the difference between array and arraylist?
array used attribute called .legth
arraylist used method called size
array is mutlity dimentsiona
where arraylist is one dietnison]

how to desending order of arraylist?
use collections.reverseOrder to reverse the order in desending

how to reverse arraylist
by using reverse method

how to remove duplicate from arraylist?
by converting into set will remove duplicate from arraylist

what is the advantage of generic colleciton
it does not need typecasting


Interview question

Difference between hash map and hash table
•	hashmap is not syncronized and hashtable is synchronized.
•	hashmap can have one null key and multiple null values where hashtable cannot have any null key or values


What is the immutable class , how to create custom immutable class
Immutable class means that once an object is created, we cannot change its content. In Java, all the wrapper classes (like Integer, Boolean, Byte, Short) and String class is immutable. We can create our own immutable class as well by using final keyword on class.

Does auto sub packge load when parent package
No

How the map internal works
HashMap in Java works on hashing principles. It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key. In hashing, hash functions are used to link key and value in HashMap. Objects are stored by calling put(key, value) method of HashMap and retrieved by calling get(key) method. When we call put method, the hashcode() method of the key object is called so that the hash function of the map can find a bucket location to store value object, which is actually an index of the internal array, known as the table.

Read more: https://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2011/02/how-hashmap-works-in-java.html#ixzz6StDMJLNc


What is hash collision
Two different keys with the same hash value is known as hash-collision. Two different entries will be kept in a single hash bucket to avoid the collision.



A collision occurs when a hash function returns same bucket location for two different keys. ... A collision will occur when two different keys have the same hashCode, which can happen because two unequal objects in Java can have the same hashCode.
It can be avoided by having each bucket contain a linked list of elements that are hashed to that bucket. This is why a bad hash function can make lookup in hash tables very slow.

**Map notes
Non generic map can do iterator without declaring datatypes in map <>
Generic instance must need to declare datatypes if do not want to use iterator and only use Enhencefor loop
for(Map.Entry m: map.entrySet()).
